Employee Management System API Contract Testing

This repository contains code for testing the contract between a Consumer and Provider in an Employee Management System API using Pact.

Prerequisites
    Python 3.10
    'requests' library
    'pact-python' library
    'unittest' framework

To run the script:

pip install -r requirements.txt

Then execute:
python3 -m pytest consumer.py

Test Cases:
GetEmployeeInfoContract: Validates the contract for retrieving information of a single employee by ID.
GetEmployeesInfoContract: Validates the contract for retrieving information of all employees.
CreateEmployeesInfoContract: Validates the contract for creating a new employee entry.
UpdateEmployeeInfoContract: Validates the contract for updating information of an existing employee by ID.

NOTE: I have also provided a file provider.py in which i am creating provider(I am not using it but this was my first approach). This script defines a FastAPI application serving as the Provider for the contract tests defined in consumer.py. The Provider offers endpoints for managing employee information, including retrieval, creation, and updating. 

I am using consumer.py 

This script is implementing contract testing for an Employee Management System API using the Pact framework. Contract testing ensures that the interactions between the Consumer (the client making requests) and the Provider (the server responding to requests) adhere to a predefined contract or agreement.

In this script i am making Pact Mock Server using pact.uri.

The pact.uri variable represents the base URI of the Pact mock server (Provider) where requests are sent during testing. This URI is dynamically generated by the Pact framework when the mock server is started, typically in the format http://localhost:<port>. It allows the Consumer to interact with the mock server as if it were the real Provider.

